# Project 2- Crypto Trading Advisory Bot 
-
 ##Ripple trading advisory bot
-
Ripple (XRP-USD) is one of our four primary cryptocurrencies analyzed for training our trading/advisory bot. For the purpose of this project, We began with identifying vaious Open APIs to obtian the Historical Data for the period 2013 to 2022. However, CoinGecko API was only able to pull open price, not closed price, High Price, Volume and Low Price. Due of this,we decided to replce CoinGecko API with Yahoo Finance API by importing Yahoo Finance library.

I used Relative Strength Index to compare the differential between the datasets. I also added an additional column to include the type of trades made based on the previous Close Price and Volume, in the existing dataframe to facilitate the decision of trading Ripple on whether to buy, hold or sell the cruptocurrency.

Relative strength index (RSI) is a momentum indicator that indicates overbought or oversold situations of an asset or cryptocurrency. Simply put, RSI is an oscillator that calculates high and low bands between two opposite values, while estimating the magnitude of price variation and the speed of these variations. Due to the volatility of the stock and crypto markets, technical indicators provide a guide to plotting entry and exit points. Hence, RSI is a reliable indicator for crypto traders. RSI is commonly used to identify general market trends. The most elementary way of using the index is buying when an asset or cryptocurrency is oversold, and selling when it’s overbought. Generally, an asset is overbought when the RSI value is 70% or above, and oversold when the value is 30% or below. When an asset is overbought, it’s a clear signal of a looming downtrend. On the flip side, oversold security is a sign of an incoming upward trend. In this case, the weakness of the asset is running out of steam and it’s gathering momentum to climb higher. RSI is the source of diverse trend trading strategies. One other common trading strategy is buying or selling when RSI hits the midline or crosses it. When the RSI is above 50, a bullish trend is brewing. When it’s below 50, it’s the start of a bearish trend. While using the midline cross-trading strategy, traders frequently use the ratios of 70/30, 50/50 or 60/40 as resistance and support in bullish or bearish trends. When the resistance suffers a hit, a trend reversal may occur. Hence, traders should spring to action accordingly.

In addition to its basic use, RSI divergence presents an arguably better market indication. Buying and selling on divergence offers you more assurance and a lower chance of reading signals incorrectly.  An RSI divergence reveals that the oscillator doesn’t agree with the present price movement. It points out the bearish and bullish positions. A bullish divergence signal shows a lower low price action on the market chart and a contrasting higher low on RSI. This means the crypto asset is gaining momentum for an upward push. But for some reason, this isn’t apparent in the price movement yet.  On the other hand, a bearish divergence occurs when the chart is on a higher low while RSI is on a higher high. It’s a pointer to an upcoming price pullback. An asset’s primary trend ensures an indicator’s signals are accurately read. RSI indicates the point where crypto hits a bullish trend and the bearish trend begins. As opposed to the general knowledge that 70/30 shows overbought and oversold assets, Constance “Connie” Brown, a market analyst, promotes a different position. According to him, the oversold signal in an uptrend is most likely over 30% and the overbought signal is often above 70%. Hence, on a downward trend, RSI can be near 50% instead of the conventional 70%. For an improved identification of extremes, most traders engage horizontal trend lines. However, one obvious way to avoid false RSI signals is via trading signals that correlate with the trend —for instance, using a bearish signal for an asset in a bearish trend, and a bullish signal for an asset in a bullish trend.


Project-2--Crypto-Trading-Advisory-Bot-

In summary, my model requires additional backtesting in various environments to confirm it's effeciency to predict and advise about cryptocurrencies. This was fueled the limitations of datase for my cryptocurrency cannot be used in reality, the accurancy is low, which is around 50%. Prediction are not always accurate and unstable. I still need to try other models for backtesting until all analysis of data looks good.
